Skin and Chome

Heavy weird/eldritch horror art style.
Creatures are either machines or organics. Machines are highly simple geometrical constructions made of flat edges most of the time, organics are more rounded.

* System Overview
** Actions
*** Attack
*** Defend
*** Cover
    Cover a non-self creature. If that creature is attacked and self+covered speed combined beats attack speed, self takes damage instead
** Creatures
*** Robots
*** Organics
** Stats
   There are "interior" and "effective" stats. Effective stats are the ones that actually matter, and they are derived from multiple inner stats.
*** Inner Stats
    - Bulk
    - Strength
    - (Coordination / Complexity)
    - Density
    - Energy
*** Effective Stats
    - HP
      Size + Energy - ??
    - Melee Damage
    - Ranged Damage
      (Coordination/Complexity) + (Strength/Energy) - 
    - AP gain
      Speed + Energy - Bulk
    - Defense
      Strength + Density - Energy
    - Cover Strength
** Liquids
   If a creatures is below (spurt_threshhold, defaults to 50%) health after being attacked at least once, they will leak fluid onto themselves.
   If a creatures is below (gush_threshhold, defaults to 15%) health at the end of their turn, they will leak fluid onto themselves.
   Machines leak oil, organics leak blood. They are considered "covered" after leaking onto themselves.
   Other systems can cause this liquid to spread, or have actions be conditional on the coverage of creatures.
   Other liquids exist in edge cases, like Fire
** Damage Types (#, Enum)
   Instead of just damage, damage has types.
   Damage has "form"/"degree of focus" and "filling".
   The filling is what hits them, the form is how.
   The more dimensions of contact an attack has, the more effective armor is against it, but the less likely it is to miss.
*** Degree of Focus:
    ~ Piercing
    ~ Slicing
    ~ Bashing
    ~ Smothering
    ~ Exotic
*** Elements:
**** Chemical (More damage to organics)
     - Fire
     - Solvent (water)
**** Physical (More damage to robots)
     - Hard (Flesh/metal)
     - Fluid (Sand, Glass)
**** Energy 
     - Magnetism (More damage to robots)
     - Radiation (More damage to organics)
** Perk Ring
   Perk rings are 3-tuple of Option(Perks). When combined, the 'front' overwrites the perks of the ring 'behind' it, except for the None slot.
   Some rings have a perk called Disease, which turns to None after merging (functioning as an erase)
* Examples
  - (Passive) Memory of Sharks: This creature has 50% more attack when bloodied 
  - (Perk) Just Can't: This creature cannot target allies with attacks or spells, even when targeting randomly.
  - (Perk) The Consequences of What?: If an action this character takes results in it being attacked by another creature, it takes no damage.
  - (Perk) Backed Into A Corner: This creature counter-attacks all attackers while defending itself.
  - (Triggered) Sanguine Transport: The first time this creature spurts, it covers itself and 2 adjacent allies in blood instead of oil.
  - (Passive) Stale Armor: After being covered in blood for 3 turns, 50% more attack until no longer bloodied
  - (Weapon) Flamethrower: Deals fire damage, deals 2x damage if target is oiled, covers them in Flames
  - (Liquid) Flames: Deals damage every turn. Deals 2x damage if the creature is also oiled. Has 25% chance to dry every turn end if creature not oiled, otherwise will never leave but has 25% chance to remove oiled.

